=============================
Changes in Thunderbird 78.6.0
=============================

browserAction
=============

* The :ref:`browserAction.setLabel` and :ref:`browserAction.getLabel` functions have been added. It is now possible to set a label value different from the title (which is used as tooltip text). The label can be set to an empty string to make the action button not have a label at all. If the toolbar is set to text-mode only (no icons), the action button label uses the title as fallback, in case an empty label has been set.

composeAction
=============

* The :ref:`composeAction.setLabel` and :ref:`composeAction.getLabel` functions have been added. It is now possible to set a label value different from the title (which is used as tooltip text). The label can be set to an empty string to make the action button not have a label at all. If the toolbar is set to text-mode only (no icons), the action button label uses the title as fallback, in case an empty label has been set.

menus
=====

* The standard properties available to :ref:`onShown <menus.onShown>` are now available for
  messages being composed, if your extension has the ``compose`` permission.

messageDisplayAction
====================

* The :ref:`messageDisplayAction.setLabel` and :ref:`messageDisplayAction.getLabel` functions have been added. It is now possible to set a label value different from the title (which is used as tooltip text). The label can be set to an empty string to make the action button not have a label at all. If the toolbar is set to text-mode only (no icons), the action button label uses the title as fallback, in case an empty label has been set.

windows
=======

* The :ref:`windows.openDefaultBrowser` function has been added. 
